---
author:
- The Buffalo Student Chapter of the ACM
date: December 2014
title: Bylaws And Constitution
...

Name
====

This organization shall be called the University at Buffalo Student
Chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery. In these Bylaws it
is referred to as the Chapter; the Association for Computing Machinery
is referred to as the ACM.

Purpose
=======

The Chapter is organized and will be operated exclusively for
educational and scientific purposes to promote the following: An
increased knowledge of and greater interest in the science, design,
development, construction, languages, management and applications of
modern computing. Greater interest in computing and its applications. A
means of communication between persons having an interest in computing.
The Chapter will serve students at the University at Buffalo and other
interested persons in the Greater Buffalo, New York community. The
Chapter is chartered by the ACM. The Chapter is recognized by the
Undergraduate Student Association (“SA”) at the University at Buffalo
(“the University”).

Membership
==========

Membership in the Student Chapter shall be open to all ACM members and
nonmembers. Membership is open to any member of the University. Voting
membership in the Student Chapter shall be granted to chapter members
who are also ACM members (ACM mandatory statement) and who are
undergraduate students. (SA requirement).

Officers
========

The officers of this Chapter shall be: Chair, Vice Chair, Secretary, and
Treasurer. These officers constitute the Council. A minimum of three
officers to establish a Chapter; some Chapters combine the offices of
Secretary and Treasurer. Other offices may also be established. All
officers of the Chapter must be members of ACM. Only full-time Division
of Undergraduate Education students at the University are eligible to
hold office. (SA requirement) The officers shall be elected by a
plurality of the votes cast at the annual election meeting. They shall
take office on May 15, and serve for one year. No member may serve in
the office of Chair or Vice Chair for more than two consecutive years.
Officers may be removed from office by a two-thirds majority vote of the
total voting membership. If an office vacancy exists for any reason,
including resignation or subsequent officer ineligibility, a special
election meeting shall be held. A replacement officer shall be elected
by a plurality of the votes cast and shall serve for the remainder of
the term. Written notice shall be distributed to all members at least
one week prior to this special election meeting.

Duties of Officers
==================

The Chair is the principal officer and is responsible for leading the
Chapter and managing its activities in accordance with the policies and
procedures of the ACM and these bylaws. The Chair shall preside at all
meetings of the chapter and of its Executive Council. The Executive
Council shall consist of the Chapter officers, the Student Chapter
Sponsor, and chairs of the Chapter’s standing committees. The Vice Chair
shall preside at meetings in the absence of the Chair, assist the Chair
in the management of the Chapter, and perform other duties that may be
assigned by the Chair. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all
Chapter and Executive Council meetings. Other duties of the Secretary
include: Maintaining the records of the Chapter. Preparation of the
Chapter’s activity report and officer contact information, and
submission of these to ACM Headquarters. Submission of any proposed
amendment to these bylaws to the Chairs of the Membership Activities
Board. Proposed amendments must be approved before they can be submitted
to the Chapter’s membership for a vote. Perform other duties as assigned
by the Chair. The Treasurer shall collect dues, pay all bills, and
maintain the Chapter’s financial records. Duties of the Treasurer also
shall include: Preparation of the Chapter’s Annual Financial Report for
presentation to the Chapter at the Annual Election meeting. Completion
and submission of the Annual Financial Report to ACM Headquarters.
Attend the yearly mandatory SA Treasurers’ Meeting to review financial
policy. Performance of other duties as assigned by the Chair.

Chapter Sponsor
===============

The Student Chapter Sponsor shall be a voting member of ACM and either a
member of the faculty or full-time staff of the University at Buffalo.
The Student Chapter Sponsor shall be selected by the Executive Council
immediately following the Election Meeting. The selection shall be
confirmed by the school. The Student Chapter Sponsor shall be generally
responsible for the activities of the Chapter. Specifically, the
Sponsor: helps provide continuity from year to year as student
leadership and personnel change; promotes good student-faculty
relationships; helps maintain university standards in all activities of
the Chapter; exercises financial supervision, if necessary, by:
promoting prompt payment of bills and collection of dues, and overseeing
the settlement of all accounts in the event of dissolution of the
Chapter; and represents the Chapter interests to the faculty and
administration.

Executive Council
=================

The Executive Council shall consist of the Chapter officers, the Student
Chapter Sponsor, and chairs of the Chapter’s standing committees. The
Term of the members of the Executive Council shall be coincident with
the terms of the officers. They shall take office on May 15, and serve
for one year.

Standing Committees
===================

The standing committees of the Chapter shall be Program, Education,
Fundraising, Membership, Publicity. The Program Committee shall plan and
make arrangements for the technical programs of the Chapter’s meetings
in accordance with the membership’s interests and the aims of the
Chapter as set forth in Article II. The Education Committee shall plan
and make arrangements for the education programs of the Chapter’s
meetings in accordance with the membership’s interests and the aims of
the Chapter as set for the in Article II. The Fundraising Committee
shall plan and conduct fundraising activities. The Membership Committee
shall plan and conduct activities pertaining to the recruitment of new
members, including at least one membership drive each semester. The
Publicity Committee shall maintain a mailing list and publish and
distribute all notices and publicity for and to the members of the
Chapter.

Temporary Committees
====================

With the advice of the Chapter’s Executive Council, the Chair may
appoint such temporary committees as appropriate. A Nominating
Committee, consisting of at least three voting members of the Chapter,
at least two of whom shall not be members of the Executive Council,
shall be appointed by the Chapter Chair at least two months prior to the
Election Meeting. An Audit Committee shall be appointed by the Chapter
Chair at the close of the fiscal year to assure the accuracy of the
accounting of the Chapters funds for the year. This Committee shall also
verify the accuracy of the Financial Report prepared by the Treasurer
for submission to ACM headquarters.

Meetings
========

Meetings shall be held as planned by the Program Committee. The Chapter
shall hold meetings only in places that are open and accessible to all
members of the Association. (ACM mandatory statement) The Annual
Election meeting should be held at the second to last meeting of the
spring semester. At this meeting, the Secretary and Treasurer each shall
present the required reports. Also, the election of officers shall be
held. Written notices of all meetings shall be distributed to all
members at least one week prior to any meeting.

Disbursements and Dues
======================

Disbursements from the Treasury for Chapter expenditures shall be made
by the Treasurer with authorization of the Executive Council and shall
be included in the minutes of its meetings. No dues shall be required of
members, except for the amount required to pay for the expenses of
national affiliation with the ACM. (SA requirement)

Amendment and Voting Procedures
===============================

All proposed changes to these Chapter Bylaws shall be approved by the
Chairs of the Membership Activities Board and the ACM Constitution and
Bylaws Committee before being presented to the Chapter membership for a
vote. (ACM mandatory statement) No official business of the Chapter
shall be conducted unless a quorum is present. A quorum of the Chapter
shall be defined as either 51 percent of the voting membership of the
Chapter or at least 10 members. A simple majority of the voting members
present shall be required to carry a motion. Officers will be elected by
a plurality of votes cast.

Dissolution of the Chapter
==========================

Dissolution of this Chapter by consent of the members shall consist of
unanimous agreement of all its officers together with a majority vote at
a meeting which has been publicized in advance to all members of the
Chapter for the purpose of taking this vote. Should this Chapter be
dissolved: Because unspent SA account funds belong to the SA and not to
the Chapter, any such remaining funds shall be returned to the SA. (SA
requirement) Its assets and liabilities shall be transferred to ACM and
shall be supervised by the Membership Activities Board. (ACM mandatory
statement)
